hi I'm Dave Epstein this is growing
wisdom and I have a treat for you today
not only do we have a video about one
thing but I'm going to kind of combine
it to make it a video about two
interesting subjects the subject for the
video is really the tomatillo which is
you know a staple in Mexican cuisine and
really an interesting vegetable I've had
some people come by here the summer and
ask me what this plant was and many of
these folks didn't even know what this
was but if you've heard of something
like salsa verde green salsa a lot of
times Mexican cooking Mexican cuisine
will use the tomatillo in it so this is
the tomatillo plant and why do I say
this is sort of a video about two things
so we'll talk about the tomatillo and
how to grow it and why it's so wonderful
but also notice this is in a container
so we're growing this wonderful plant in
a container and we'll get all the fruit
on it it is just laden with small
tomatillos they're probably not going to
get as big as you would get if they were
in the regular garden but there's so
many of them so let's talk first about
how to grow this number one tomatillos
are notorious for not being self
pollinating in other words you need to
so my other tomatillos are just around
the corner I have a whole bunch of them
actually in the garden so this is close
enough that the pollination obviously is
occurring they've actually done studies
on this and discovered that if you plant
one alone and it doesn't have any others
near it it rarely will set very much
fruit so if you only plant one and you
don't get any fruit that's probably one
of the reasons
there are different varieties of
tomatillos so they can be green yellow
red even purple this particular one as
it ripens is mostly of the green variety
the nice thing about tomatillos for the
beginning gardener is that they rarely
suffer too many diseases you don't want
to have it too close to the ground
because slugs you like to eat the leaves
they can also get some of the blights
that affect Tomatoes by the way this is
a cousin of tomatoes it's not a tomato
plant it's a different plant you'll
definitely want to give this even
watering notice the plant grows wider
than it does tall so unlike the tomato
which gets very tall and very heavy this
plant doesn't need quite as much support
you'll definitely want to choose a large
enough container we have a container
here which is 15 inches across I would
say that anything 15 inches or larger
it's probably a good idea
I've grown things like cucumbers and
smaller containers but this plant gets
fairly wide and also it's using so much
water that if the container is too small
you're going to have to water it every
few hours instead of just once a day how
do you know when these bad boys are ripe
well the outer husk which is not edible
will actually begin to turn yellow and
eventually brown that's when the
tomatillo is right
so if you open up the calyx you will see
inside there is the fruit
so that is the edible part now as I said
these are a little bit smaller than I
would like but one of the reasons for
that is they are container grown quick
story I was in Peru several years ago
and they actually took the calyx and
they twisted it and they dipped the
tomatillo in a caramel and serve that as
a dessert it's like a little candied
tomatillo except instead of using an
apple they use this
so the taste I find the taste to be a
little bit like a tomato but it also has
essence of I sound like I'm drinking
wine but it sounds like it feels like it
has essence of plums or peaches or
something fruity as well so it's not
just a tomato we taste at all you can
see why the Mexicans really love using
this in their cooking
so while you can certainly eat the
tomatillo raw roasted fried or perhaps
just sauteed and added with a bit of
rice our three of my favorite ways to
use this wonderful vegetable for growing
wisdom I'm Dave Epstein
you